users/edvorakjp/readme.md, before:

# edvorakjp

epaew's Enhanced Dvorak layout for Japanese Programmer

## Layout overview
This is a sample. You can swap any symbol keys and modifier keys.

- Base layer (for ansi layout)
```
  //+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+---------+
      `  , !  , @  , #  , $  , %  , ^  , &  , *  , (  , )  , [  , ]  ,  BSPC   ,
  //+----+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+-------+
      TAB  , '  , ,  , .  , P  , Y  , F  , G  , R  , W  , Q  , /  , =  ,   \   ,
  //+------++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---+-------+
      CAPS  , A  , O  , E  , I  , U  , D  , T  , N  , S  , M  , -  ,    ENT    ,
  //+-------+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-----------+
       LSFT   , ;  , X  , C  , V  , Z  , B  , H  , J  , K  , L  ,     RSFT     ,
  //+------+--+---++----++---+----+----+----+----+-+--+---++----++------+------+
      LCTL , LGUI , LALT ,          SPACE          , RALT , RGUI , MENU , RCTL
  //+------+------+------+-------------------------+------+------+------+------+
```
- Base layer (for iso layout)
  - Two C keys are placed, it's on purpose.
```
  //+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+---------+
      `  , !  , @  , #  , $  , %  , ^  , &  , *  , (  , )  , [  , ]  ,  BSPC   ,
  //+----+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+-------+
      TAB  , '  , ,  , .  , P  , Y  , F  , G  , R  , W  , C  , /  , =  ,
  //+------++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++
      CAPS  , A  , O  , E  , I  , U  , D  , T  , N  , S  , M  , ;  , -  , ENT  ,
  //+-------+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+------+
       LSFT   , Q  , X  , C  , V  , Z  , B  , H  , J  , K  , L  , \  ,  RSFT   ,
  //+------+--+---++----++---+----+----+----+----+-+--+---++----++---+--+------+
      LCTL , LGUI , LALT ,          SPACE          , RALT , RGUI , MENU , RCTL
  //+------+------+------+-------------------------+------+------+------+------+
```
- Additional layer (common, blanks are transparent)
```
  //+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+---------+
         ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,         ,
  //+----+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+-------+
           , AI , OU , EI ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,       ,
  //+------++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---+-------+
            , A  , O  , E  , I  , U  ,    , Y1 , N  , Y2 ,    ,    ,           ,
  //+-------+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-----------+
              ,ANN ,ONN ,ENN ,INN ,UNN ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,              ,
  //+------+--+---++----++---+----+----+----+----+-+--+---++----++------+------+
           ,      ,      ,                         ,      ,      ,      ,
  //+------+------+------+-------------------------+------+------+------+------+
```

 And you can see [my iris keyboard layout](../../keyboards/iris/keymaps/edvorakjp/keymap.c) for sample implementation, too.

## for Japanese

- 日本語入力用のキーを追加
  - IME 切り替えキー
    - 長押しでレイヤー切り替え、短押しでIME切り替え
    - macOS(かな/英数)、Windows(Alt+\`)の両方に対応
  - DvorakJP(<http://www7.plala.or.jp/dvorakjp/>)を参考にした日本語入力用キーの導入
    - 拗音入力用のYキーを追加配置
    - 二重母音入力用のキー(AI, OU, EI)
    - 撥音入力用のキー(ANN, ONN, ENN, INN, UNN)
    - いずれかの子音を押下することで Additional layer が出現し、いずれかの母音を押下することで Base layer に戻ります（※1※2）
      - ※1促音の入力に使うため、また連続で同じ指での打鍵を減らすために、  
        FGRDTNBHJ を押下した場合はy1が、それ以外の子音を押下した場合はy2が出現しません
      - ※2撥音の入力のため、nを2連打すると、Base layerに戻ります
- Define some custom keys for typing Japanese
  - IME switching
    - act as LOWER/RAISE when hold, act as IME switching when tapped
    - for macOS(かな/英数), for Windows(Alt+\`)
  - oneshot combination keys, inspired from DvorakJP (<http://www7.plala.or.jp/dvorakjp/>)
    - additional Y key to enter a contracted sound
    - diphthong keys (AI, OU, EI)
    - syllabic nasal (ANN, ONN, ENN, INN, UNN)
    - Additional layer is appeared when you taps any consonant keys, and disappeared when you taps any diphthong keys.

## for Programmer

- Dvorak 配列をベースに、ショートカットでよく利用される XCV は QWERTY 配列の位置を維持
- Vimユーザのために、HJKL キーを横並びで配置
- デフォルトレイヤーには、数字キーの代わりに記号 `!@#$%^&*()` を配置

- mainly based on Dvorak layout, but XCV is available in the same position of QWERTY layout
- HJKL is lining side by side, for Vim users
- we can type `!@#$%^&*()` keys without shift keys in base layer

## License

Copyright 2018 Ryo Maeda epaew.333@gmail.com @epaew

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Keymap: Refactor edvorakjp user library (#4480)
* Refactor edvorakjp user library

* add tap dance support

* update keymaps

* edvorakjp: add SWAP_SCLN option

* fix behavior of SWAP_SCLN

users/edvorakjp/readme.md, after:

# edvorakjp

epaew's Enhanced Dvorak layout for Japanese Programmer

## Layout overview
This is a sample. You can swap any symbol keys and modifier keys.

- Base layer (for ansi layout)
```
  //+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+---------+
      `  , !  , @  , #  , $  , %  , ^  , &  , *  , (  , )  , [  , ]  ,  BSPC   ,
  //+----+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+-------+
      TAB  , '  , ,  , .  , Y  , P  , F  , G  , R  , W  , Q  , /  , =  ,   \   ,
  //+------++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---+-------+
      CAPS  , A  , O  , E  , I  , U  , D  , T  , N  , S  , M  , -  ,    ENT    ,
  //+-------+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-----------+
       LSFT   , ;  , X  , C  , V  , Z  , B  , H  , J  , K  , L  ,     RSFT     ,
  //+------+--+---++----++---+----+----+----+----+-+--+---++----++------+------+
      LCTL , LGUI , LALT ,          SPACE          , RALT , RGUI , MENU , RCTL
  //+------+------+------+-------------------------+------+------+------+------+
```
- Base layer (for iso layout)
  - Two C keys are placed, it's on purpose.
```
  //+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+---------+
      `  , !  , @  , #  , $  , %  , ^  , &  , *  , (  , )  , [  , ]  ,  BSPC   ,
  //+----+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+-------+
      TAB  , '  , ,  , .  , Y  , P  , F  , G  , R  , W  , C  , /  , =  ,
  //+------++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++
      CAPS  , A  , O  , E  , I  , U  , D  , T  , N  , S  , M  , ;  , -  , ENT  ,
  //+-------+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+------+
       LSFT   , Q  , X  , C  , V  , Z  , B  , H  , J  , K  , L  , \  ,  RSFT   ,
  //+------+--+---++----++---+----+----+----+----+-+--+---++----++---+--+------+
      LCTL , LGUI , LALT ,          SPACE          , RALT , RGUI , MENU , RCTL
  //+------+------+------+-------------------------+------+------+------+------+
```
- Additional layer (common, blanks are transparent)
```
  //+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+---------+
         ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,         ,
  //+----+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+-------+
           , AI , OU , EI ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,       ,
  //+------++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---++---+-------+
            , A  , O  , E  , I  , U  ,    , Y1 , N  , Y2 ,    ,    ,           ,
  //+-------+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-+--+-----------+
              ,ANN ,ONN ,ENN ,INN ,UNN ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,              ,
  //+------+--+---++----++---+----+----+----+----+-+--+---++----++------+------+
           ,      ,      ,                         ,      ,      ,      ,
  //+------+------+------+-------------------------+------+------+------+------+
```

 And you can see [my iris keyboard layout](../../keyboards/iris/keymaps/edvorakjp/keymap.c) for sample implementation, too.

## for Japanese

- 日本語入力用のキーを追加
  - IME 切り替えキー
    - 長押しでレイヤー切り替え、短押しでIME切り替え
    - macOS(かな/英数)、Windows(Alt+\`)の両方に対応
  - DvorakJP(<http://www7.plala.or.jp/dvorakjp/>)を参考にした日本語入力用キーの導入
    - 拗音入力用のYキーを追加配置
    - 二重母音入力用のキー(AI, OU, EI)
    - 撥音入力用のキー(ANN, ONN, ENN, INN, UNN)
    - いずれかの子音を押下することで Additional layer が出現し、いずれかの母音を押下することで Base layer に戻ります（※1※2）
      - ※1促音の入力に使うため、また連続で同じ指での打鍵を減らすために、  
        FGRDTNBHJ を押下した場合はy1が、それ以外の子音を押下した場合はy2が出現しません
      - ※2撥音の入力のため、nを2連打すると、Base layerに戻ります
- Define some custom keys for typing Japanese
  - IME switching
    - act as LOWER/RAISE when hold, act as IME switching when tapped
    - for macOS(かな/英数), for Windows(Alt+\`)
  - oneshot combination keys, inspired from DvorakJP (<http://www7.plala.or.jp/dvorakjp/>)
    - additional Y key to enter a contracted sound
    - diphthong keys (AI, OU, EI)
    - syllabic nasal (ANN, ONN, ENN, INN, UNN)
    - Additional layer is appeared when you taps any consonant keys, and disappeared when you taps any diphthong keys.

## for Programmer

- Dvorak 配列をベースに、ショートカットでよく利用される XCV は QWERTY 配列の位置を維持
- 一部にVimユーザ用のキー配置を実施
    - HJKL キーを横並びで配置
    - Shift押下時と非押下時で、";"キーの挙動を入れ替え（`config.h` 内で `#define SWAP_SCLN` の宣言が必要です）
- デフォルトレイヤーには、数字キーの代わりに記号 `!@#$%^&*()` を配置

- mainly based on Dvorak layout, but XCV is available in the same position of QWERTY layout
- for Vim users
    - HJKL is lining side by side
    - swap the ";" key behavior. i.e. send ":" normally and send ";" when you hold shift. (need `#define SWAP_SCLN` in your `config.h`)
- we can type `!@#$%^&*()` keys without shift keys in base layer

## License

Copyright 2018 Ryo Maeda epaew.333@gmail.com @epaew

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
